---
title: Azure SDK for JavaScript (December 2019)
layout: post
date: 2019-12-13
tags: javascript typescript
sidebar: releases_sidebar
repository: azure/azure-sdk-for-js
permalink: /releases/2019-12/js.html
---

The Azure SDK team is pleased to make available the December 2019 client library release. This represents the sixth release of the ground-up rewrite of the client libraries to ensure consistency, idiomatic design, and excellent developer experience and productivity. This release includes 
- patch updates to existing libraries for Identity, Key Vault (keys and secrets) and Storage (blobs and queues)
- new preview for Event Hubs and Keyvault Certificates
- new library for Storage File Shares

## Installation Instructions
To install the packages, copy and paste the below into a terminal.

    $> npm install @azure/app-configuration@1.0.0-preview.9
    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-keys
    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-secrets
    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-certificates@4.0.0-preview.11
    $> npm install @azure/storage-blob
    $> npm install @azure/storage-queue
    $> npm install @azure/storage-file-share
    $> npm install @azure/event-hubs@5.0.0-preview.7
    $> npm install @azure/eventhubs-checkpointstore-blob@1.0.0-preview.5
    $> npm install @azure/identity

## Feedback
If you have a bug or feature request for one of the libraries, please post an issue at the [azure-sdk-for-js repository](https://github.com/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/issues)

## Changelog
Detailed change logs are linked to in the Quick Links below. Here are some critical call outs.

### App Configuration.

The latest preview of the `@azure/app-configuration` package now supports credential objects from the `azure/identity` package.

### Storage

The `@azure/storage-file-share` package has moved from preview to stable stage.
Please note that this package replaces the previous `@azure/storage-file` package.

### Event Hubs

The latest preview for the `@azure/event-hubs` package has built on top of the previous preview with slight API improvements
across the board. 
- To send events to a particular partition, the partition id is to be passed to the `createBatch` method instead of `sendBatch`.
- The interfaces used by the checkpoint store have been updated to remove overlap between `PartitionOwnership` and `Checkpoint`.
Therefore, if you have been using the `@azure/eventhubs-checkpointstore-blob` package to take advantage
of the load balancing and checkpointing features, you will need to update it to the latest version as well.
- Checkpoint store is now meant to be passed to the constructor of the `EventHubConsumerClient` class rather than the
`subscribe()` method on it.

## Latest Releases

View all the latest versions of JavaScript packages [here][js-latest-releases].

{% include shared/refs.md %}
