---
title: Azure SDK for JavaScript (August 2019 Preview)
layout: post
date: 6 Aug 2019
tags: javascript typescript
sidebar: js_sidebar
repository: azure/azure-sdk-for-js
permalink: /releases/2019-08-06/js.html
---

The Azure SDK team is pleased to make available the July 2019 client library preview release. This represents the first release of the ground-up rewrite of the client libraries to ensure consistency, idiomatic design, and excellent developer experience and productivity. This preview release includes new client libraries for Key Vault (keys and secrets), Event Hubs, Storage (blob, files and queues) and Cosmos.

## Installation Instructions
To install the packages, copy and paste the below into a terminal.

    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-keys@4.0.0-preview.3
    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-secrets@4.0.0-preview.4
    $> npm install @azure/storage-queue@12.0.0-preview.2
    $> npm install @azure/storage-file@12.0.0-preview.2
    $> npm install @azure/storage-blob@12.0.0-preview.2
    $> npm install @azure/event-hubs@5.0.0-preview.2

## Feedback
If you have a bug or feature request for one of the libraries, please post an issue at the [azure-sdk-for-js repository](https://github.com/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/issues)

## Changelog
Detailed change logs are linked to in the Quick Links below. Here are some critical call outs.

- Designed based on the [Azure SDK Design Guidelines for Typescript][typescript-guidelines], resulting in a consistent API design and common feature set such as HTTP retries, logging, transport protocols, authentication protocols, cancellation mechanisms etc.
- Support for Azure Active Directory credentials created using the new [@azure/identity](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/identity) library. Moving forward, this would be the common mode of authentication for all Azure SDK libraries.
- Modernized API making use of async functions and async iterators, to offer an improved and more productive developer experience.

### Azure Identity

- Added new user credential types, allowing authentication within client applications.

### Event Hubs

- Expanded support for sending multiple messages in a single call by adding the ability to create a batch which avoids the error scenario of exceeding size limits. Users having bandwidth concerns can control the batch size as desired.
- Introduced a new model for consuming events via the EventProcessor class. This simplifies the process of checkpointing today and will handle load balancing across partitions in upcoming updates.

### Key Vault

- Added support for cryptographic operations (such as sign, verify, encrypt, and decrypt) using KeyVault keys.
- Added support for challenge based authentication.
- Added browser support for keys and secrets.

### Storage

- Added support for SAS connection strings.

## Quick Links

See [Nov Release](..\2019-11\js.html)

{% include refs.md %}