---
title: Azure SDK for JavaScript (November 2019)
layout: post
date: Nov 2019
tags: javascript typescript
sidebar: releases_sidebar
repository: azure/azure-sdk-for-js
permalink: /releases/2019-11/js.html
---

The Azure SDK team is pleased to make available the November 2019 client library preview release. This represents the fourth release of the ground-up rewrite of the client libraries to ensure consistency, idiomatic design, and excellent developer experience and productivity. This preview release includes new client libraries for Key Vault (keys and secrets), Event Hubs and Storage (blob, files and queues).

## Installation Instructions
To install the packages, copy and paste the below into a terminal.

    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-keys@4.0.0
    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-secrets@4.0.0
    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-certificates@4.0.0-preview.9
    $> npm install @azure/storage-blob@12.0.0
    $> npm install @azure/storage-queue@12.0.0
    $> npm install @azure/storage-file-share@12.0.0-preview.6
    $> npm install @azure/event-hubs@@5.0.0-preview.5

## Feedback
If you have a bug or feature request for one of the libraries, please post an issue at the [azure-sdk-for-js repository](https://github.com/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/issues)

## Changelog
Detailed change logs are linked to in the Quick Links below. Here are some critical call outs.

### Event Hubs
- The library has undergone a major redesign where we now have separate clients for sending and receiving events.
    - Use `EventHubProducerClient` to send events to Azure Event Hubs
    - Use `EventHubConsumerClient` to receive events from Azure Event Hubs
- The pull model for receiving events has been removed in favor of an unified push model that will work for:
    - Receiving from given single partition
    - Receiving from all partitions
    - Receiving using a load balanced model where multiple instances of your program can share the load of processing partitions.

### Key Vault
- API improvements across the three Keyvault libraries for Keys, Secrets & Certificates based on UX studies and internal reviews.
More details are in the changelogs linked below.

### Storage
- API improvements across the three Storage libraries for Blobs, Queues & Files based on UX studies and internal reviews.
More details are in the changelogs linked below.

## Quick Links

{% include_relative js-quicklinks.md %}

{% include refs.md %}
