---
title: Azure SDK for Python (November 2019)
layout: post
date: 2019-11-11
tags: python
sidebar: releases_sidebar
repository: azure/azure-sdk-for-python
permalink: /releases/2019-11/python.html
---

The Azure SDK team is pleased to announce our November 2019 client library releases. This represents the first GA release of a ground-up rewrite of our client libraries to ensure consistency, idiomatic design, productivity, and an excellent developer experience.

This release includes the following:

#### GA

- Storage (Blobs, Queues)
- Key Vault (Secrets, Keys)
- Identity

#### Preview

- Storage (Files)
- Event Hubs
- Cosmos
- App Configuration

## Installation Instructions

To install the latest preview version of the packages, copy and paste the following commands into a terminal:

```bash
pip install --pre azure-cosmos
pip install --pre azure-eventhub
pip install --pre azure-eventhub-checkpointstoreblob-aio
pip install --pre azure-keyvault-certificates
pip install azure-keyvault-keys
pip install azure-keyvault-secrets
pip install azure-storage-blob
pip install --pre azure-storage-file-datalake
pip install --pre azure-storage-file-share
pip install azure-storage-queue
pip install --pre azure-appconfiguration
pip install azure-identity
```

## Feedback

If you have a bug or feature request for one of the libraries, please post an issue to [GitHub](https://github.com/azure/azure-sdk-for-python/issues).

## Changelog

Detailed change logs are linked to in the Quick Links below. Here are some critical call outs.

### Cosmos

- azure.cosmos.errors module deprecated and replaced by azure.cosmos.exceptions
- The access condition parameters (`access_condition`, `if_match`, `if_none_match`) have been deprecated in favor of separate `match_condition` and `etag` parameters.
- Added query Distinct, Offset and Limit support.

### Event Hubs

- Added support for tracing ([issue #7153](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/issues/7153)).
- Added new boolean type parameter `track_last_enqueued_event_properties` in method `EventHubClient.create_consumer()`.
- Added new property `last_enqueued_event_properties` of EventHubConsumer which contains `sequence_number`, `offset`, `enqueued_time` and `retrieval_time information`.
- Removed support for IoT Hub direct connection. EventHubs compatible connection string of an IoT Hub can be used to create EventHubClient and read properties or events from an IoT Hub.
- Removed support for sending EventData to IoT Hub.
- Removed parameter exception in method `close()` of EventHubConsumer and EventHubProcuer.

### Key Vault

- Restructured the `Certificate`, `Key`, and `Secret` models and renamed them to `KeyVaultCertificate`, `KeyVaultKey`, and `KeyVaultSecret`.
- Renamed methods to more clearly reflect their intended uses.
- Both async and sync versions of deleting and recovering keys and secrets now return pollers that can be awaited if necessary
- For more specific details about these changes, see the respective
[certificate](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/keyvault/azure-keyvault-certificates/CHANGELOG.md),
[key](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/keyvault/azure-keyvault-keys/CHANGELOG.md),
and [secret](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/keyvault/azure-keyvault-secrets/CHANGELOG.md) changelogs.

### Storage

- The first preview for azure-storage-file-datalake has been released to allow accessing Azure Storage data with DataLake semantics when hierarchical namespace is enabled
- `azure.storage.file` is now `azure.storage.fileshare`.
  - The package is renamed from `azure-storage-file` to `azure-storage-file-share` along with renamed client modules.
- New API for stream download responses for blobs and files. This object is no longer iterable.
- Client and model modules are now internal.
- Changed optional params to keyword only in queues and files.
- `enqueue_message` is now called `send_message` in queues.
- Other breaking changes like renaming `LeaseClient` in blobs to `BlobLeaseClient`.

### App Configuration

- Etag and match_condition of delete_configuration_setting are now keyword argument only

### Identity

- `DefaultAzureCredential` accepts an `authority` keyword argument, enabling
its use in national clouds
- All credentials with `tenant_id` and `client_id` positional parameters now accept them in that order
- Optional parameters for several credentials are now keyword arguments
- Authenticating with a single sign-on shared with other Microsoft applications
only requires a username when multiple users have signed in
- Async credentials default to [aiohttp](https://pypi.org/project/aiohttp/)
for transport
- Known issue ([#8292](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/issues/8292)):
`DefaultAzureCredential` and `SharedTokenCredential` raise exceptions on Python 3.8
on Windows

{% include refs.md %}
