---
title: Azure SDK for .NET (November 2019)
layout: post
date: Nov 2019
tags: dotnet
sidebar: releases_sidebar
repository: azure/azure-sdk-for-net
permalink: /releases/2019-11/dotnet.html
---

The Azure SDK team is pleased to announce our November 2019 client library preview.  This represents the first release of a ground-up rewrite of our client libraries to ensure consistency, idiomatic design, productivity, and an excellent developer experience.  This preview includes new libraries for Storage (Blobs, Queues, and Files), Key Vault (Secrets and Keys), Event Hubs, Cosmos, App Configuration, and Identity.

## Installation Instructions

To install any of our packages, please search for them via `Manage NuGet Packages...` in Visual Studio (with `Include prerelease` checked) or copy these commands into your terminal:

    $> dotnet add package Azure.Storage.Blobs
    $> dotnet add package Azure.Storage.Blobs.Batch
    $> dotnet add package Azure.Storage.Queues
    $> dotnet add package Azure.Storage.Files.Shares --version 12.0.0-preview.5

    $> dotnet add package Azure.Security.KeyVault.Secrets
    $> dotnet add package Azure.Security.KeyVault.Key
    $> dotnet add package Azure.Security.KeyVault.Certificates --version 4.0.0-preview.6

    $> dotnet add package Azure.Messaging.EventHubs --version 5.0.0-preview.5

    $> dotnet add package Azure.Identity

    $> dotnet add package Azure.Data.AppConfiguration --version 1.0.0-preview.4

    $> dotnet add package Azure.Cosmos --version 4.0.0-preview

## Feedback

If you have a bug or feature request for one of the libraries, please [file an issue in our repo](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/issues/new/choose).

## Changelog

Detailed changelogs are linked from the [Quick Links](#quick-links) below. Here are some of the highlights:

- New client libraries were created using the [Azure SDK Design Guidelines for .NET](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/dotnet_introduction.html) resulting in consistent API patterns and shared features like automatic retries, authentication, logging, configurable transport pipelines, exceptions, mocking, etc.
- Support for Azure Active Directory credentials using our new Identity library that embrace the future of authentication across Azure services.
- Parity across synchronous and asynchronous APIs offering a choice appropriate to your application.
- Updated dependencies on the latest (preview-7) version of `Azure.Core` library.

### Storage
- Renamed `Azure.Storage.Blobs.Batching` to `Azure.Storage.Blobs.Batch` for
  consistency with other platforms
- Renamed `Azure.Storage.Files` to `Azure.Storage.Files.Shares` to better align
  with the newly released Azure.Storage.Files.DataLake and provide a consistent
  set of APIs for working with files on Azure
- Renamed a number of operations and models to better align with other client
  libraries and the .NET Framework Design Guidelines
- Bug fixes

### Azure Identity

- Various types have been renamed. See the Identity [changelog](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity/CHANGELOG.md) for details.
- Updated exception model across the Azure.Identity library.
  - `TokenCredential` implementations in the Azure.Identity library now throw exceptions rather than returning `default`(`AccessToken`) when no token is obtained
  - Added the `CredentialUnavailableExcpetion` exception type to distinguish cases when failure to obtain an `AccessToken` was expected

### Event Hubs

- The early stages of a large refactoring of the Event Hub client type hierarchy are complete. For more details, please see the [Event Hubs changelog](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/CHANGELOG.md#500-preview5-2019-11-04).
- Cancellation tokens are now fully supported throughout the client hierarchy and across operations.
- The information about the last event enqueued to a partition is now presented as an immutable object, if the tracking option was enabled.
- Retry policies and timeouts have been made local to a specific client instance, making them easier to configure and reason about.
- Client types using Azure identity for authorization should now be working properly; a bug was fixed to allow the proper authorization scopes to be requested.
  _(A community contribution, courtesy of [albertodenatale](https://github.com/albertodenatale))_


### Key Vault

- `Key` has been renamed to `KeyVaultKey` to avoid ambiguity with other libraries and to yield better search results.
- `KeyClient.GetKeys` and `KeyClient.GetKeyVersions` have been renamed to `KeyClient.GetPropertiesOfKeys` and `KeyClient.GetPropertiesOfKeyVersions` respectively.
- `KeyClient.DeleteKey` has been renamed to `KeyClient.StartDeleteKey` and now returns a `DeleteKeyOperation` to track this long-running operation.
- `Secret` has been renamed to `KeyVaultSecret` to avoid ambiguity with other libraries and to yield better search results.
- `SecretClient.GetSecrets` and `SecretClient.GetSecretVersions` have been renamed to `SecretClient.GetPropertiesOfSecrets` and `SecretClient.GetPropertiesOfSecretVersions` respectively.
- `SecretClient.DeleteSecret` has been renamed to `SecretClient.StartDeleteSecret` and now returns a `DeleteSecretOperation` to track this long-running operation.
- Various other types have been renamed. See the Key Vault [Keys](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/master/sdk/keyvault/Azure.Security.KeyVault.Keys/ChangeLog.md)
  and [Secrets](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/master/sdk/keyvault/Azure.Security.KeyVault.Keys/ChangeLog.md) changelogs for details.
- The Certificates client library has been updated to work with the 1.0.0 release versions of Azure.Core and Azure.Identity.

### App Configuration

- Changed `ConfigurationClient` method names to align with client methods in other Azure SDK libraries.
- Made terminology consistent around `IsReadOnly`.
- Removed methods and properties exposing unnecessary complexity, including a `SetConfigurationSetting` overload and the `ConfigurationClientOptions.Version` property.
- Fixed a bug causing incorrect request signing on retries.
- Made `ConfigurationSetting` serializable by `System.Text.Json` serializers.
- Additional API improvements; see App Configuration [changelog](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/Azure.Data.AppConfiguration_1.0.0-preview.4/sdk/appconfiguration/Azure.Data.AppConfiguration/CHANGELOG.md) for further details.

### Cosmos

- Initial 4.0.0 preview release.

## Quick Links

{% include_relative net-quicklinks.md %}

{% include refs.md %}
