---
title: Azure SDK for JavaScript (October 2019 Preview)
layout: post
date: 11 Oct 2019
tags: javascript typescript
sidebar: js_sidebar
repository: azure/azure-sdk-for-js
permalink: /releases/2019-10-11/js.html
---

The Azure SDK team is pleased to make available the October 2019 client library preview release. This represents the fourth release of the ground-up rewrite of the client libraries to ensure consistency, idiomatic design, and excellent developer experience and productivity. This preview release includes new client libraries for Key Vault (keys and secrets), Event Hubs and Storage (blob, files and queues).

## Installation Instructions
To install the packages, copy and paste the below into a terminal.

    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-keys@4.0.0-preview.9
    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-secrets@4.0.0-preview.9
    $> npm install @azure/keyvault-certificates@4.0.0-preview.8
    $> npm install @azure/storage-queue@12.0.0-preview.5
    $> npm install @azure/storage-file@12.0.0-preview.5
    $> npm install @azure/storage-blob@12.0.0-preview.5
    $> npm install @azure/event-hubs@5.0.0-preview.5

## Feedback
If you have a bug or feature request for one of the libraries, please post an issue at the [azure-sdk-for-js repository](https://github.com/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/issues)

## Changelog
Detailed change logs are linked to in the Quick Links below. Here are some critical call outs.

### Event Hubs
-	API Improvements to the `EventProcessor` class that allows one to have distributed, load-balanced event processing.
- The durable checkpoint store for the above can now support event hubs & consumer groups of the same name, but in different namespaces.
- Removal of the feature that allowed one to consume events from an IotHub instance using an `EventHubClient` created using
the IotHub connection string. The feature to do the same using an EventHub compatible IotHub connection string remains.
- Distributed tracing support is added when sending events.

### Key Vault
- API improvements across the three Keyvault libraries for Keys, Secrets & Certificates based on UX studies and internal reviews.
More details are in the changelogs linked below.
- Distributed tracing support is added to all three Keyvault libraries

### Storage
- Added development connection string support to connect to the storage emulator [Azurite - Extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Azurite.azurite
- API improvements across the three Storage libraries for Blobs, Queues & Files based on UX studies and internal reviews.
More details are in the changelogs linked below.
- Distributed tracing support is added to all three Keyvault libraries

## Quick Links

See [Nov Release](..\2019-11\js.html)

{% include refs.md %}
